
Zakład Teorii Mnogości:

1. Most important scientific achievement during the reporting period:

An investigation of the Marczewski–Burstin countable representability of ideals
(in short: MBC). A concept of extendability to MBC ideals was introduced, 
and several of its properties were established, 
including the fact that this notion lies between the notions of 
omega-+-diagonalizability and countable separability. 
The question posed in the paper

,,Ideals of nowhere dense sets in some topologies on positive integers''
Kwela M., Nowik A., Topology Appl. 248 (2018), 149–163 

was answered by showing that the ideal overline{ctbl} is not MBC.
(all results by M.Kwela & J.Tryba)

2. Most important publication published during the reporting period:

  Thilo Kuessner, Janusz Przewocki, Andreas Zastrow, Forum Mathematicum 38/5, pages
1297--1333. (year 2026).
  Please note that this journal has been assigned 100 points 
in the Polish Ministry of Science's official journal ranking list.
 
  The injectivity of the canonical map from singular homology to measure homology 
was proven for certain "mildly wild" spaces, 
namely spaces that do not have the homotopy type of a CW-complex but have countable fundamental groups.

3. Social and economic impact of research 
(examples of the use of research results by society or the economy during the reporting period) 

This description is based on the publication 
Ernest Czermański, Aneta Oniszczuk-Jastrząbek, Janusz Przewocki, Jakub Neumann, 
Tomasz Borzyszkowski, Elzbieta Szaruga, Michał Pluciński
Intelligent Management and Artificial Intelligence: Trends, Challenges, and Opportunities, Vol. 2
pages 436--454, year 2025:

  The results of the study contribute to improving the quality and reliability of AIS 
(Automatic Identification System) data used in maritime transport. 
By identifying data inconsistencies and anomalies, the proposed approach supports the development of more 
accurate and robust systems for vessel monitoring, traffic management, and maritime decision-making.
  The research outcomes may be applied by maritime authorities, 
shipping companies, port operators, and developers of AI-based maritime systems. 
Improved AIS data quality can enhance navigational safety, 
optimize vessel operations, reduce operational costs, 
and support more sustainable maritime transport through better route planning and resource management.

4.Papers in leading publications:

A publication worth 100 MSWiA points:

Kuessner, Thilo; Przewocki, Janusz; Zastrow, Andreas
"On measure homology of mildly wild spaces."
Forum Math. 38 (2026), no. 5, 1297--1333. 
DOI:10.1515/forum-2024-0046.
